GIT.md, before:

Git flow by Monterail
=====================

## Successfull branching model

Basically we inherent from [successful git branch model](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) AKA *git flow* so we strongly recommend to read it first if you have not already.

## Basic flow

When you are working on a new feature create a new branch named `feature/name` from `dev` branch. Separate words with dashes:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout -b feature/my-new-tiny-feature dev

If you want to share your work with others push your topic branch to the remote server:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git push origin feature/my-new-tiny-feature

On the other hand if you want to fetch others work from remote server use:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git fetch origin
    $ git checkout -b feature/my-new-tiny-feature origin/feature/my-new-tiny-feature

When the work is finished merge it into `dev` branch:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout dev
    $ git merge --no-ff feature/my-new-tiny-feature

## Ugly [bugs](http://vladstudio.deviantart.com/art/A-bug-142782682)

Bugs found on `dev` branch should be fixed it in the proper feature branch which introduced the bug.

Bugs found on `master` branch should be fixed in the `hotfix/bugid` branch:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout -b hotfix/bugid master

When finished, merge it to the `master` and `dev` branches:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout master
    $ git merge --no-ff hotfix/bugid
    $ git checkout dev
    $ git merge --no-ff hotfix/bugid

## Revert changes
*... AKA "I don't wanna this any more!"*

From time to time you might need to revert a feature work which were added to the `dev` or `master` but should not. In such a cases find a merge commit and revert it:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git revert hash

You can read more about reverting at [gitready](http://gitready.com/intermediate/2009/03/16/rolling-back-changes-with-revert.html) and [git-scm article](http://git-scm.com/2010/03/02/undoing-merges.html).

## [Freeze](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qSqnO8iGz9o)

If your development process needs code freezing create a separate branches named `release/version` from the `dev` branch when needed.

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout -b release/version dev # or hash if you want to freeze from specific point

Any bugs found in a release branch should be fixed directly in release branch. When the freeze is accepted merge it into master and dev.

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout master
    $ git merge --no-ff release/version
    $ git checkout dev
    $ git merge --no-ff release/version

## Going live

When your work is production ready merge it to the `master` branch:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout master
    $ git merge --no-ff dev # or release branch if used

## Caution

Never ever commit directly in `dev` or `master` branches!

## Conventions

* Feature branch: `feature/name`
* Hotfix branch: `hotfix/name` or `hotfix/bugid` (from ticket system like redmine)
* Realease branch: `release/version`
* Multi word branch name: `really-long-branch-name`

## Todo

* describe squashing
* introduce versioning convention
* anything more?

Commit message:

Squash commits from feature branches before making a merge.
We should always squash commits from a feature branch before merging
into dev(elop) branch. You will gain cleaner history and it would be
easier to revert if you need to give up the change.

Do it even if the feature branch is not local, but you are collaborating
with it.

Don't do it if branch is neither a "feature branch" nor "hotfix branch".

GIT.md, after:

Git flow by Monterail
=====================

## Successfull branching model

Basically we inherent from [successful git branch model](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/) AKA *git flow* so we strongly recommend to read it first if you have not already.

## Basic flow

When you are working on a new feature create a new branch named `feature/name` from `dev` branch. Separate words with dashes:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout -b feature/my-new-tiny-feature dev

If you want to share your work with others push your topic branch to the remote server:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git push origin feature/my-new-tiny-feature

On the other hand if you want to fetch others work from remote server use:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git fetch origin
    $ git checkout -b feature/my-new-tiny-feature origin/feature/my-new-tiny-feature


When the work is finished [squash commits](http://gitready.com/advanced/2009/02/10/squashing-commits-with-rebase.html) into single one and merge it into `dev` branch:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout dev
    $ git merge --no-ff feature/my-new-tiny-feature

## Ugly [bugs](http://vladstudio.deviantart.com/art/A-bug-142782682)

Bugs found on `dev` branch should be fixed it in the proper feature branch which introduced the bug.

Bugs found on `master` branch should be fixed in the `hotfix/bugid` branch:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout -b hotfix/bugid master

When finished, merge it to the `master` and `dev` branches:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout master
    $ git merge --no-ff hotfix/bugid
    $ git checkout dev
    $ git merge --no-ff hotfix/bugid

## Revert changes
*... AKA "I don't wanna this any more!"*

From time to time you might need to revert a feature work which were added to the `dev` or `master` but should not. In such a cases find a merge commit and revert it:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git revert hash

You can read more about reverting at [gitready](http://gitready.com/intermediate/2009/03/16/rolling-back-changes-with-revert.html) and [git-scm article](http://git-scm.com/2010/03/02/undoing-merges.html).

## [Freeze](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qSqnO8iGz9o)

If your development process needs code freezing create a separate branches named `release/version` from the `dev` branch when needed.

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout -b release/version dev # or hash if you want to freeze from specific point

Any bugs found in a release branch should be fixed directly in release branch. When the freeze is accepted merge it into master and dev.

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout master
    $ git merge --no-ff release/version
    $ git checkout dev
    $ git merge --no-ff release/version

## Going live

When your work is production ready merge it to the `master` branch:

    in ~/workspace/project
    $ git checkout master
    $ git merge --no-ff dev # or release branch if used

## Caution

Never ever commit directly in `dev` or `master` branches!

## Conventions

* Feature branch: `feature/name`
* Hotfix branch: `hotfix/name` or `hotfix/bugid` (from ticket system like redmine)
* Realease branch: `release/version`
* Multi word branch name: `really-long-branch-name`

## Todo

* describe squashing
* introduce versioning convention
* anything more?
